BrickBreaker for iOS
Matt Gilbert
CS50 Final Project 2017


    First off is the AppDelegate.swift file. This file was provided when I created the project, and I didn’t need to edit it at all. This file controls the highest level of the app and ensures the app works with the rest of the phone. I didn’t need to figure out exactly what this file does- Apple implements the functions for me so I don’t have to worry about it.
    Next is the Assets.xassets folder. This stores the images that the SKSpriteNodes use, as well as the “BB” app icon images I created.
    I didn’t use LaunchScreen.storyboard at all. I added tap and pan gesture sensors to Main.storyboard so that the user can move the paddle
    Info.plist includes information about the program. I didn’t make any edits to this file.
    GameViewController.swift controls the code that I wrote. This contains the GameScene and SpriteKit View. The GameScene runs the game and the view displays that scene. This file also contains the functions that are called when the user taps or pans, which allow the user to move the paddle in the GameScene by dragging or pressing down on the screen.
    GameScene.swift contains most of the code. When this is first initialized it sets up all of the variables for the size and position of objects, sets up the ball, paddle, and edges, adds a few rows of bricks, and increments the level and adds bricks and moves existing bricks down towards the paddle as time passes. It also creates labels that display the current level and score.
    It then calls “moveBall”, which moves the ball in direction “ball_direction”. The ball moves until it comes into contact with something, either an edge, a brick, or the paddle. Then the “didBegin(_ contact: SKPhysicsContact)” function is called, which immediately stops the motion of the ball. This function then determines which object or objects the ball is in contact with, and calls a specific functions to deal with this specific collision situation. The functions “ballHitOneBrick”, “BallHitManyBricks”, “BallHitPaddle”, and “BallHitEdge” are all designed to account for specific circumstances (as implied by their names) as well as several special cases. See the comments of these functions to see how they work more in depth. Overall, I do my best to ensure the ball bounces off of surfaces correctly, although this may become less accurate at high speeds.
    The game ends when the ball drops below the paddle and hits the bottom edge or the bricks drop down to the level of the paddle. When this occurs, “endGame” is called. This function stops the motion of the ball, removes all the bricks, displays “Game Over” on the screen, then displays “GameOverScene.swift”
    GameOverScene.swift displays a white background with the words “Your score is:” followed by the users score. After three seconds it returns to the GameScene and resets the scene so that the user can play another game of BrickBreaker.
    In writing this project, I combined elements from two different tutorials that I completed. They both had very different methods for achieving similar results. I borrowed more from the simpler program, as it is my first time creating an app. As a result, I did most of my coding in a single file to keep things simpler.
